#summary Resources on animation blending.
#labels animations,programming,blending

= Introduction =

Below is a list of resources dealing with animation blending. Some of them cover theoretical concepts, where others are more practical, containing code samples.

= Partial blending support in Ogre3D: Blending Masks =
It allows masking bones in an animationState by defining an array of weights for bones. Setting all bones to 0 except the ones we're interested in will result on that animation not blending those bones (example of use: combine a "point flashlight towards", and "run", so we can discard the bones in the lower body for the point flashlight animation).

Note: the skeleton's blending mode must probably be changed to ANIMBLEND_CUMULATIVE (default is AVERAGE, I think)


= Bibliography =
  * [http://www.ogre3d.org/docs/api/html/classOgre_1_1AnimationState.html Ogre API - Animation State Class]
  * [http://www.ogre3d.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=5&t=54998 Partial blending example]
  * [http://www.ogre3d.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=11&t=45260 Tecnofreak animation system], by Pau Novau. It may be a good idea to dive into the source code (hosted at sourceforge, a link is provided)
  * [http://www.naughtydog.com/docs/Naughty-Dog-GDC08-Creating-a-Character-in-Drakes-Fortune.pdf Creating a character in Drake's Fortune] Paper about animation states (or translating states to animation sequences/blends). Some of the images seem to have been taken/used in Jason Gregory's book as well -obvious, as the ppt was written by a colleague of him at Naughty Dog
  * [http://www.gamasutra.com/features/20030704/edsall_01.shtml Animation Blending - Achieving inverse kinematics and more]. Gamasutra's article on animation blending.
  * [http://www.ogre3d.org/tikiwiki/AnimationBlender Animation Blender]: Link to Ogre's wiki where a snippet featuring an animation blender class has been pasted.
  * [http://graphics.ucsd.edu/courses/cse169_w05/CSE169_11.ppt Blending and state machines]

  * Jason Gregory's Game Engine Architecture. *Chapter 11: Animation Systems*
  